### 0.13.0 changelog

This release requires a server update.

We've update the [Updating Your Calabash iOS Version](https://github.com/calabash/calabash-ios/wiki/B1-Updating-your-Calabash-iOS-version) page as part of our on-going effort to improve the wiki.

### Summary

This release contains a potential breaking change in the scrolling behavior.  Previously, it was possible to scroll past the content size of scroll view.  This is something that user cannot do.  Scrolling is now limited to the content size of the scroll view.  Please let us know if this causes problems. Thanks @idcuesta for a stellar pull-request.

We are working hard to make dylib injection a reality.  We made some improvements in run-loop to help stabilize the interaction with lldb.  This feature is still experimental.

We added more support for interaction with UIPickerView classes.  You can now interact with picker using [raw JavaScript calls](https://github.com/calabash/calabash-ios/wiki/Calabash-iOS-Ruby-API#pickers).

### Features

* Support raw JavaScript calls to UIPickerView classes **run-loop:** #134
* Xcode 6.3 beta support **run-loop:** #127
* Scroll gestures don't scroll past content size **server:** #120 @idcuesta
* Improved dylib injection support **run-loop:** #135

### Fixes

* undefined method `embed` (NoMethodError) when calling screenshot_and_raise #246
* Fix an edge-case crash in dump route. **server:** #119
* Better instruments process spawn/termination. **run-loop:** #123, #128, #129
* In multi-user environments, /tmp/run_loop_host_cache causes permissions issues **run-loop:** #121 @onfoot

### Deprecated

See https://github.com/calabash/calabash-ios/wiki/Deprecated

### Hot Topics

See https://github.com/calabash/calabash-ios/wiki/Hot-Topics

* NSLog output can cause apps to become unresponsive during testing
* cucumber is not compatible with ruby 2.2.0
* Does not contain a compatible architecture for target device - Expected 'i386' but found ["x86_64"]. (RunLoop::IncompatibleArchitecture) **AKA** _When targeting a Simulator, the app launches, then quits several times in rapid succession._
