### 0.20.3

This release, combined with DeviceAgent 1.0.2, and run-loop 2.2.2,
fixes several critical bugs related to:

1. Code signing the DeviceAgent-Runner.app for physical devices
2. Text entry and keyboard interactions

Thank you for posting issues on GitHub.  Progress may seem slow, but we
are working hard to resolve the issues.

### Apple System Ruby

Calabash no longer supports running with Apple's system ruby.

We recommend using rbenv.  We has updated our
[Ruby on MacOS](https://github.com/calabash/calabash-ios/wiki/Ruby-on-MacOS)
page with more details.

### iOS 8 and MacOS Sierra

Apple has removed UIAutomation from Xcode 8. Our replacement for UIAutomation
is DeviceAgent. DeviceAgent is based on Apple's XCUITest framework. XCUITest
is only available for iOS > 9. If you need to test iOS 8, you must have Xcode 7
installed. macOS Sierra does not support Xcode 7. Keep this in mind when making
your macOS upgrade plans.

### Breaking Changes

0.20.0 shipped with a mistake in the `Calabash::Cucumber::DeviceAgent`
API.  That module incorrect forwarded missing methods to `Core`.  Some
users will experience failing tests if they are making calls to `Core`
methods through the `Core::device_agent` method.  You should only be
calling `Core#device_agent` if absolutely necessary.  As time goes on,
we are finding edge cases were the DeviceAgent query engine is extremely
slow to respond.

### DeviceAgent

Our goal for this transition is 100% backward compatibility with
UIAutomation.  We think we are close, but we need your help to discover
what is missing.  Since UIAutomation is not available, all `uia_*` calls
now raise an error when tests are run with DeviceAgent.  The text of the
error will have workarounds and examples to help you transition your
tests.  When you find something you cannot do with DeviceAgent, please
create a GitHub issue.

Please see the
[DeviceAgent](https://github.com/calabash/calabash-ios/wiki/DeviceAgent)
on the Calabash iOS Wiki for more details.

Requirements:

* Calabash iOS server == 0.20.3
* run\_loop >= 2.2.2
* Ruby >= 2.2; the latest ruby is preferred.

These two wiki pages have instructions for updating the most recent versions.

* [Updating your Calabash iOS version.](https://github.com/calabash/calabash-ios/wiki/B1-Updating-your-Calabash-iOS-version)
* [Updating your run-loop version.](https://github.com/calabash/calabash-ios/wiki/Updating-your-run-loop-version)
