### 0.20.5

This release combined with run-loop 2.4.1 provides fixes for several critical
bugs related to:

1. Code signing the DeviceAgent-Runner.app for physical devices
2. Text entry and keyboard interactions

This release does not require a server update.

### Code Signing

Definining a `CODE_SIGN_IDENTITY` is no longer necessary, but is
supported if for some reason you require a specific identity for
signing.

The code signing algorithm has been improved.  We expect there will be
fewer problems installing DeviceAgent-Runner.app on physical devices.

However, @ablarg\_twitter has identified a problem with adopting 2.4.1 -
DeviceAgent installation may fail with this error message:

```
This application's application-identifier entitlement does not match
that of the installed application
```

A fix for this problem will be available in the next release of
run-loop.

### Text Entry

Text entry is stable on all architectures.  Previously we reported that
text entry was not stable on i386 simulators and armv7 devices.

### Apple System Ruby

Calabash no longer supports running with Apple's system ruby.

We recommend using rbenv.  We has updated our
[Ruby on MacOS](https://github.com/calabash/calabash-ios/wiki/Ruby-on-MacOS)
page with more details.

We are recommending that users install ruby 2.3.1 or higher.  Ruby 2.4
_is not supported at this time_.  We are aware that this is causing
problems for some users.  We are tracking this issue here:

* Cannot use Ruby 2.4.x, which uses JSON 2.x, with Calabash iOS #1286

### iOS 8 and MacOS Sierra

Apple has removed UIAutomation from Xcode 8. Our replacement for UIAutomation
is DeviceAgent. DeviceAgent is based on Apple's XCUITest framework. XCUITest
is only available for iOS > 9. If you need to test iOS 8, you must have Xcode 7
installed. macOS Sierra does not support Xcode 7. Keep this in mind when making
your macOS upgrade plans.

### Breaking Changes

0.20.0 shipped with a mistake in the `Calabash::Cucumber::DeviceAgent`
API.  That module incorrect forwarded missing methods to `Core`.  Some
users will experience failing tests if they are making calls to `Core`
methods through the `Core::device_agent` method.  You should only be
calling `Core#device_agent` if absolutely necessary.  As time goes on,
we are finding edge cases where the DeviceAgent query engine is extremely
slow to respond.

### DeviceAgent

Our goal for this transition is 100% backward compatibility with
UIAutomation.  We think we are close, but we need your help to discover
what is missing.  Since UIAutomation is not available, all `uia_*` calls
now raise an error when tests are run with DeviceAgent.  The text of the
error will have workarounds and examples to help you transition your
tests.  When you find something you cannot do with DeviceAgent, please
create a GitHub issue.

Please see the
[DeviceAgent](https://github.com/calabash/calabash-ios/wiki/DeviceAgent)
on the Calabash iOS Wiki for more details.

Requirements:

* Calabash iOS server == 0.20.4
* run\_loop >= 2.4.1
* Ruby >= 2.2, < 2.4

These two wiki pages have instructions for updating the most recent versions.

* [Updating your Calabash iOS version.](https://github.com/calabash/calabash-ios/wiki/B1-Updating-your-Calabash-iOS-version)
* [Updating your run-loop version.](https://github.com/calabash/calabash-ios/wiki/Updating-your-run-loop-version)
