## 0.9.168 changelog

**IMPORTANT** requires a server update to 0.9.168

**IMPORTANT** The 'screenshot2' route has been deprecated - there is no replacement

### Features

* support for Xcode 5.1 iOS Simulators
* improved scrolling for UICollectionViews
* support for iPhone apps emulated on the iPad
* ruby API for interacting with Keychain Services
* more wait helpers
* arm64 and x86_64 support

##### support for Xcode 5.1 iOS simulators

It is important that you read https://github.com/calabash/calabash-ios/wiki/A0-Xcode-51-Support wiki page.

We are deprecating the `SDK_VERSION` environmental variable in 0.9.168.  To launch a specific form-factor/iOS combination, set the `DEVICE_TARGET`.  Here are some examples:

```
# iPhone 3.5in iOS 6.1
$ DEVICE_TARGET='iPhone Retina (3.5-inch) - Simulator - iOS 6.1' cucumber 

# iPhone 4in iOS 7.1 64bit
$ DEVICE_TARGET='iPhone Retina (4-inch 64-bit) - Simulator - iOS 7.1' cucumber

# iPad retina iOS 7.0
$ DEVICE_TARGET='iPad Retina - Simulator - iOS 7.0' cucumber
```

***IMPORTANT:*** It is imperative that you build your app for the simulator you are targeting.   Before reporting issues, please triple check that you have built for the exact device / iOS pair you are testing.


###### known issues

* You must manually enable Accessibility in each iOS Simulator (just like the old days).
* Users are reporting ScriptAgent crashed dialogs in the Finder.
* Cannot launch iOS 6.1 non-retina simulator.
* Launching with sim_launcher is technically still supported, but it is not clear that will be supported in the future.
    - `$ SDK_VERSION=6.1 cucumber`

##### improved support for scroll to collection view cells

thanks @LiohAu

```
scroll_to_collection_view_item(item, section, opts={})
scroll_to_collection_view_item_with_mark(mark, opts={})
```

Please note that UICollectionViews are not available on iOS 5.

##### support for iPhone apps emulated on iPad in iOS 7

When testing an iPhone app on an iPad, the app must be scaled to 1x in order for calabash to translated touch coordinates correctly.  To ensure your app is displayed at 1x, change your `Before` hook to look like this:

```
# support/01_launch.rb
Before do |scenario|
  @calabash_launcher = Calabash::Cucumber::Launcher.new
  unless @calabash_launcher.calabash_no_launch?
    @calabash_launcher.relaunch
    @calabash_launcher.calabash_notify(self)

    # ensures that emulated iphone apps are at 1x
    # this is a nop if the device is not an ipad
    ensure_ipad_emulation_1x
  end
...
end
```

##### calabash.framework now supports arm64 and x86_64

resolves [issue #313](https://github.com/calabash/calabash-ios/issues/313) - thanks @daudt for suggesting this.

##### ruby API for Keychain interaction

* +10 @jgallagher for his persistence and insights [PR #35] (https://github.com/calabash/calabash-ios-server/pull/35)
*  +1 @soffes for SSKeychain

##### improved API docs (yard + rdoc)

**WIP** - We are looking for help documenting the calabash-ios gem.  Voice your [opinion about rdoc vs. yard!](https://github.com/calabash/calabash-ios/issues/327)  Get involved!

Thanks to @TeresaP for pushing on this.

Touch the 'Documentation' link on the RubyGems project page: https://rubygems.org/gems/calabash-cucumber

```
keychain_clear
keychain_delete_password(service, account)
keychain_password(service, account)
keychain_set_password(service, account, password)
```

##### more wait helpers

thanks @jescriba

```
until_element_exists(uiquery, opts = {})
until_element_does_not_exist(uiquery, opts = {})
when_element_exists(uiquery, opts = {})
```

#### CORS headers

Calabash server now sets appropriate CORS http headers to allow separately deployed browser app to interact with server. This is intended for future tools to use.


### Fixes

- (issues https://github.com/calabash/calabash-ios/issues/185) - touch offset is incorrect for iphone app running on iOS 7 ipad simulator because app is always shown at 2x
- (issues https://github.com/calabash/calabash-ios/issues/319) - iphone_5? returns false for iPhone 5S
- (issues https://github.com/calabash/calabash-ios/issues/334) - uia_type_string + UITextView + text with newlines
- (issues https://github.com/calabash/calabash-ios/issues/332) - whitespace in query crashes the app

### Deprecated *** NEW ***

These functions, methods, or cucumber steps have been deprecated and will now generate warning messages.

To suppress deprecated warnings set `ENV['CALABASH_NO_DEPRECATION']=1` (not recommend).

* since 0.9.131 `query_all` - use `query("view all")` - see [Query Syntax](https://github.com/calabash/calabash-ios/wiki/05-Query-syntax)
* since 0.9.145 `set_text`  - use `keyboard_enter_text` or (sparingly) `clear_text`
* since 0.9.151 `When I clear "some text field"` - no replacement
* since 0.9.163 `await_keyboard` - use `wait_for_keyboard`
* since 0.9.163 `keyboard_enter_char` second arg `should_screenshot` has been replaced by an options hash. Use the `:should_screenshot` key instead
* since 0.9.163 `send_uia_command`  - use `uia("...javascript..", options)` instead.  This has not been formally deprecated (no warnings will be generated) yet, but it will be in a future version.
* since 0.9.168 `iphone_5?` and `Device::iphone_5?` - use `iphone_4in?`
* since 0.9.168 `OS` environmental variable has been deprecated - use `DEVICE_TARGET` instead
* since 0.9.168 `SDK_VERSION` environment variable has been deprecated - use `DEVICE_TARGET`
