## 0.9.169 changelog

**IMPORTANT** requires a server update to 0.9.169 [see Updating Calabash Server](https://github.com/calabash/calabash-ios/wiki/B1-Updating-your-Calabash-iOS-version#2-update-the-calabashframework)

**IMPORTANT** recommend an update to hooks [see 0.9.169 01_launch.rb Updates](https://github.com/calabash/calabash-ios/wiki/A0-0.9.169-01_launch-Updates)

**IMPORTANT** Ruby 1.8 support has been dropped.  We recommend ruby 2.1 or higher, but Calabash still supports ruby 1.9.

### Features

#### Querying by class name 

Previously all class name queries without `view:` were subject to a 'convenient' rewrite: prepend `UI` 
and capitalize. For example, `label` becomes `UILabel`. This was confusing to many who expected a class name
would match all objects of (sub-)type that class. For that reason the following is now implemented:

1. If the class-name query begins with a lower-case letter, do the re-write. So `label` is still `UILabel`.
2. If the class-name query begins with a capital letter, do not perform the re-write.

This makes it possible to query a class just by typing its name, e.g.,

```
    query("UILabel parent UITableViewCell first")
    
    [0] {
               "text" => "Cell 0",
               "rect" => {
            "center_x" => 160,
                   "y" => 0,
               "width" => 320,
                   "x" => 0,
            "center_y" => 22,
              "height" => 44
        },
        ...
    }
```

Potential fix for [issue: 351 query language should support exact matching on view classes](https://github.com/calabash/calabash-ios/issues/351).

#### Text property value is now available in query output

See example query above.

#### Alpha level support for navigating the accessibility view hierarchy

By default, Calabash queries will search through the parent/sub-view hierarchy of UIKit.

This release adds alpha level support for the hierarchy defined by the iOS accessibility protocols (`UIAccessibility*`).

Specifically it is possible to modify the direction of the query via modifiers `acc` and `accParent`.

This is sometimes needed and sometimes more intuitive (even if not strictly needed). It can also lead to more robust queries in some cases.

A classical example would be iOS tab bar:

    irb(main):022:0> classes("UITabBar child *")
    [
        [0] "UITabBarButton",
        [1] "UITabBarButton",
        [2] "UITabBarButton",
        [3] "UITabBarButton",
        [4] "UIImageView"
    ]
    irb(main):023:0> query("UITabBar child button")
    [] #What? confusing! But on iOS, a UITabBarButton is not a subclass of UIButton
    # acc to the rescue
    irb(main):024:0> query("acc UITabBar button")
    [
        [0] {
                  "class" => "UITabBarButton",
                     "id" => nil,
                   "rect" => {
                "center_x" => 40,
                       "y" => 520,
                   "width" => 76,
                       "x" => 2,
                "center_y" => 544,
                  "height" => 48
            },
    ...
    ]
    
Another example would be non-UIKit components advertising themselves via UIAccessibility.
    


#### Calabash Server and Calabash Gem Compatibility Checks

If your server version is not compatible with your gem version, calabash will warn you at launch.

```
WARN: server version is not compatible with gem version
please update your server and gem
server version: '0.9.168'
   gem version: '0.9.169'
```

You can now do a visual check to see what version of the server you have installed.

```
$ ls -1 calabash.framework/Versions/
0.9.169  <== server version
A
Current
```

And you can do a programmatic check as well.

```
$ calabash.framework/Resources/version => 0.9.169
```

#### EXPERIMENTAL: Synchronous operation combining waiting, waiting for animations and tapping.

Consider this API experimental. It has some known issues and is subject to change. We're looking for community feedback on this. 

A common pattern in testing on iOS is the following 'trio' of actions: `tap` somthing, `wait_for` some marker element, wait for animations to finish. This pattern is so common that it should be the high-level methods in Calabash (similarly to page objects). Particularly waiting for animations is a common pit-fall for beginners. 

A new method `wait_tap` combines these three into one synchronous action: `wait_for_elements_exist`, "wait for element not animating", `touch`.
 
Let's use the [NavBar](https://developer.apple.com/library/ios/samplecode/NavBar/Introduction/Intro.html) sample from Apple. 

[Short demo](http://recordit.co/m92ovNxaSA)

A brief explanation of demo. In the NavBar app, an iOS Table view with a navigation bar is the main view. This uses the classic navigation controller 'push' animation. A common problem is that views on the next screen is considered visible by iOS before the animation completes. So often when you tap a table cell, and then wait for a button to tap on the pushed view, the tap will fail (without warning) because the button is visible but animating. `wait_tap`, tries to solve this.


### Changes

#### at\_exit launch hooks

The `Calabash::Cucumber::SimulatorHelper` module has been deprecated.

Please replace:

```
Calabash::Cucumber::SimulatorHelper.stop
```

with this:

```
launcher = Calabash::Cucumber::Launcher.new
launcher.simulator_launcher.stop
```

The most common place to find the deprecated call is in your `support/01_launch.rb` file.

###### OLD

```
at_exit do
  launcher = Calabash::Cucumber::Launcher.new
  if launcher.simulator_target?
    Calabash::Cucumber::SimulatorHelper.stop unless launcher.calabash_no_stop?
  end
end
```

###### NEW

```
at_exit do
  launcher = Calabash::Cucumber::Launcher.new
  if launcher.simulator_target?
    launcher.simulator_launcher.stop unless launcher.calabash_no_stop?
  end
end
```

### Fixes


- [issue 349](https://github.com/calabash/calabash-ios/issues/349) launcher.rb DEVICE_TARGET variable semantics are inconsistent in light of Xcode 5.1 changes
- [issue 337](https://github.com/calabash/calabash-ios/issues/337)  linked_with_calabash? fails if project path has spaces
    - thanks to @dalewking, @LeonS, @chouti for reporting
- [pull 364](https://github.com/calabash/calabash-ios/pull/364) updates the interaction between calabash and the sim_launcher gem
- [pull 359](https://github.com/calabash/calabash-ios/pull/359) should be able to reset the simulator content and settings
- [pull 362](https://github.com/calabash/calabash-ios/pull/362) `_text_from_first_responder` should return `""` instead of `nil` when the first responder cannot be determined
    - thanks to @CityTransit
- [pull 357](https://github.com/calabash/calabash-ios/pull/357) calabash should enable accessibility automatically and disable the AXAccessibilityInspector
    - thanks to @rpranata for his pull request 
    - thanks to @JaniJegoroff for inspiration
- [issue 278](https://github.com/calabash/calabash-ios/issues/278) - the output of simulator_helper `self.derived_data_dir_for_project` should be more tightly controlled with `CALABASH_FULL_CONSOLE_OUTPUT`
- [issue 275](https://github.com/calabash/calabash-ios/issues/275) - the server and gem versions should be more tightly coupled
    - thanks to @AndyKriger for reporting

- Fix: Non-obvious behaviour for some query strings with whitespace scattred, e.g., `query("* text:'View 1'")`, `query("* text    :     'View 1'    ")`, `query("* text:   'View 1'    ")` are now all the same (previously the whitespace changed the parsing).


- Non-obvious behaviour for some query strings with whitespace scattred, e.g., query("* text:'View 1'"), query("* text    :     'View 1'    "), query("* text:   'View 1'    ") are now all the same (previously the whitespace changed the parsing).

- thanks to @moredip for the following fixes in sim_launcher
   - https://github.com/moredip/Sim-Launcher/pull/31
   - https://github.com/moredip/Sim-Launcher/pull/30


### Deprecated

See https://github.com/calabash/calabash-ios/wiki/Deprecated

##### NEW

* since 0.9.169 `Calabash::Cucumber::FRAMEWORK_VERSION` - no replacement
* since 0.9.169 `Calabash::Cucumber::Device.framework_version` - use `server_version` instead
* since 0.9.169 `Calabash::Cucumber::SimulatorHelper` module - use `Calabash::Cucumber::SimulatorLauncher` instead. The following were not ported over to the new module:
    - `get_version`
    - `ios_version`
    - `ios_major_version`
    - `version_check`

### Other

#### rspec testing for testing Calabash iOS gem

```
$ be rake spec
```
